Walkthrough - Cognitive Architecture with Dual-Channel Output
This document outlines the verification of the Cognitive Architecture, demonstrating the functionality of the Pattern Recognition Layer, Three-Threaded Braiding, and Dual-Channel Renderer.

Verification Results
Automated Tests
Ran python test_architecture.py to verify individual components.

Pattern Recognition: Correctly identifies archetypes based on keywords.
Structural Thread: Detects logical connectors and assigns scores.
Metabolic Thread: Calculates cost based on input length.
Social Thread: Evaluates sentiment keywords.
Braider: Successfully aggregates thread outputs.
Renderer: Produces both Symbolic and Narrative formats.
Result: All 6 tests passed.

Manual Verification (Demo)
Ran python main.py with the input signal:

"We should collaborate to help the community because it is good."

Symbolic Channel Output
{
  "thread_outputs": {
    "StructuralLogicThread": {
      "score": 0.8,
      "reasoning": "Logical connectors detected."
    },
    "MetabolicCostThread": {
      "score": 0.37,
      "reasoning": "Input length 63 consumes 0.63 energy units."
    },
    "SocialImpactThread": {
      "score": 0.8,
      "reasoning": "Positive social markers detected."
    }
  },
  "aggregate_score": 0.66,
  "synthesis": "Structurally Logical connectors detected. Metabolically: Input length 63 consumes 0.63 energy units. Socially: Positive social markers detected."
}
Narrative Channel Output
Processing complete. The system has reached a conclusion with a confidence of 0.66. Internal reasoning suggests: Structurally Logical connectors detected. Metabolically: Input length 63 consumes 0.63 energy units. Socially: Positive social markers detected.

Conclusion
The system successfully implements the core requirements:

Pattern Recognition: (Implicitly tested via threads, though explicit layer is ready for expansion).
Three-Threaded Braiding: Structural, Metabolic, and Social threads are active and integrated.
Dual-Channel Output: The same internal state is rendered as both structured JSON and natural language.
